> # FEATURES OF JAVA:

> ### Simple:
    Java is very easy to learn, and its syntax is simple, clean and easy to understand . Its syntax is based on C++.

> ### Object-Oriented:
    Everything in Java is an object.Java uses different types of objects that incorporates both data and behavior.It includes Object , Class , Inheritance , Polymorphism , Abstraction & Encapsulation.

> ### Portable:
    Java facilitates you to carry the Java bytecode to any platform. It doesn't require any implementation.

> ### Platform independent:
    Java provides a software-based platform.Whenever a java file is compiled by javac(java compiler) then it creates a .class file or bytcode.The generated bytecode can be exceuted by java interpreter or can be compiled by other bytecode compiler to convert it into machine code.

> ### Secured:
    Java use java runtime environment of its own to run a java appication whereas C++ use runtime environtment of operating system to run a program.

> ### Robust:
    Java uses strong memory management.There are exception handling , automatic garbage collection and the type checking mechanism in Java which makes Java robust.

> ### Architecture neutral:
    It occupies 4 bytes of memory for both 32 and 64-bit architectures in Java.

> ### High Performance:
    Java is faster because Java bytecode is "close" to native code.

> ### Multithreaded:
    The main advantage of multi-threading is that it doesn't occupy memory for each thread. It shares a common memory area.
    
> ### Distributed:
    This feature of Java makes us able to access files by calling the methods from any machine on the internet.

> ### Dynamic:
    It supports dynamic loading of classes. It means classes are loaded on demand.